So I mentioned that Unity has
a component-based architecture,
and we've used that a little bit,
but what we can do with components
is we can compose them.
So Unity's component-based architecture
leans into an idea called composition.
So rather than other approaches to code
diversification, such as object-oriented
inheritance, we can combine components
to get more emergent behavior.
So while C# does allow for inheritance and
inheritance is very
useful in Unity projects,
thinking in terms of GameObjects that
use several different components,
tends to lead toward more variety and
emergent behavior.
And we've actually already done this.
So similar to the PlayerMovement script,
we can actually create a FollowTarget
script that automatically drives
the existing RollingMovement script,
and it kind of creates the appearance
of a simple opponent AI.
So because the opponent isn't going
to have the benefit of player input,
we need another way to drive
that RollingMovement script.
So we're still reusing
the RollingMovement script, but
we're going to just move
it in different way.
So we've got this FollowTarget script,
and I'm going to switch over to Unity.
And in the scripts folder,
I'm going to create
a new C# script and
we'll call this FollowTarget.
And we want to attach this
script to the opponent.
So we'll add this to the opponent,
and I'll click on the opponent to make
sure that, yes, it does indeed now
have a FollowTarget component.
And let's get rid of these
namespaces we don't need.
And we are going to use Start, and
we are going to use FixedUpdate.
So we'll change that.
All right, so
we need a couple of variables here.
We need a SerializeField,
which will be a Transform, and
this is going to be the target that
the opponent is trying to follow.
So the target, in this case,
is going to be the collectible,
it's trying to grab the collectible.
So it's transform of the collectible.
So we're gonna create
another SerializeField.
It's gonna be a float value.
And we're gonna call
this retargetingSpeed.
And, this is going to be how
fast the FollowTarget or
the opponent is able to find a new target.
So we're gonna give it some time to
kind of meander a little bit before it
actually is moving in the right direction,
because that's how a real player
would be playing the game.
Otherwise it makes it way too difficult,
because the opponent can just
kind of go immediately in the direction
of the collectible as it appears.
So in the start method,
we're going to gather components.
The only one we really need is
the RollingMovement, which,
oops, I actually did need one
more variable there, I apologize.
We need RollingMovement.
Okay, so
we have the RollingMovement component.
And of course, we need to get that
component from this GameObject,
so we'll say
GetComponent<RollingMovement>.
And now we've got it.
So in FixedUpdate,
how are we gonna do this?
Well, first, we need to point the target
direction vector toward the target.
So we're gonna do a little
bit of vector math here.
We want to create a new Vector3,
which we're gonna use in
subsequent calculations.
We're gonna call this TargetDirection.
And this is going to be equal
to the target's position.
Okay, remember the target
is the collectible.
So we are looking for
the position of the collectible
minus our own Transform position.
So, what that's going to do is
it's going to create a vector that
points in the direction from our
current position to the collectible.
So if the sphere is close,
or the collectible is close,
set the retarget speed to be high.
Otherwise, use the typical
retargeting speed.
Okay, So
we're gonna calculate another value here.
We're gonna call this retargetSpeed.
And this is another
slightly confusing line, so
I'll type this out and then explain it.
We want to type Vector3.SqrMagnitude,
Of the targetDirection And
then if that is less than 0.1 float,
I'll type a question mark here,
Then a float of 1,000, a colon,
and the retargeting speed variable.
So, There's other ways I
could have written this.
This is basically an if else
statement in one line, but
there's a couple things going on here.
So first, here's kind of what's
inside our if statement.
So we're saying if the squared
magnitude of this target
direction is less than 0.1,
what does that mean?
Well, the squared magnitude,
if you kind of remember back
to the Pythagorean theorem,
we could take the magnitude of
the vector and actually get its
exact distance by calculating
the hypotenuse of that triangle.
We don't need the exact distance, we just
need to know kind of relative distance.
So by taking the squared magnitude,
we're avoiding a square root calculation,
which is really expensive in
any application of computers.
[LAUGH] So especially when
you're running fixed update and
you're doing it every physics update,
you can use square roots,
it's not a big deal, but if square
roots can be avoided, they should be.
So, we're taking the squared magnitude.
So this is a distance, right?
So we're saying, if the distance to
the collectible is less than 0.1,
or the approximate distance is less
than 0.1, then we're gonna do this.
We're going to set the retarget
speed to be really high,
because if it's right there,
we just wanna kinda move immediately.
We don't want to spend so much time
kinda retargeting to finally get there.
So it's kind of a cheat or a hack,
basically, for the computer.
Otherwise, if that's not true,
if we're not close to a collectible,
if it's further away than that, we're just
gonna use this normal retargeting speed.
So we've got these values here,
we've calculated a target direction,
we've calculated the speed at
which we want to retarget.
Now, we need to actually do those things.
So we're going to do that with what's
called a linear interpolation,
which will allow us to slowly do something
over time, or quickly, if we want to.
So I'll type out a comment here.
We are going to linearly interpolate
the movement vector from the current
direction to the target,
Where T (time) is fixed delta
time multiplied by the retargeting speed.
Okay, so
that's where we're going to use that.
So in rollingMovement.movementDirection,
This is where we're going to actually
set that vector, the direction that it
should be rolling in, just like we did
with player input and other scripts.
So to do this, on the Vector3 class,
there is a method called lerp.
And you will use lerps all
the time as a game developer.
A lerp is a linear interpolation,
and that's where
you're going from one value
to another value over time,
and you're updating this
every fixed update.
So which values do we wanna go between?
Well, we're retargeting, right?
So we want to take the current movement
direction of the RollingMovement script.
And that's going to be
your starting point.
So our starting point is
constantly going to be changing,
because we're reassigning it.
But the next value that we assign
is going to be slightly closer,
To the target direction
that we calculated.
And we do need to do, again,
a little vector math thing here.
We need to normalize this vector,
so that it has a magnitude of 1,
because the MovementDirection
also has a magnitude of 1.
Remember, that's being multiplied by
speed in the RollingMovement script.
So we don't want to
multiply that any further.
So what is time?
So we're moving from the MovementDirection
to the TargetDirection.
So we're slowly retargeting
where this thing is.
How do we wanna do that over time?
Well, we want to say Time.fixedDeltaTime.
So we at least want to calculate that
consistently over every fixed update.
But then we wanna be able to adjust
the speed of that retargeting.
So just like how we adjust
the speed of rolling,
we can also adjust that by
multiplying by the retargetSpeed.
So that's a lot of code.
Hopefully the explanation and
the comments help.
I imagine there might be a few questions.
But let's switch back to Unity.
And on the opponent, Remember we
created a few serialized fields here.
So what do we want to target?
Well, we want to target, The collectible.
And so now,
if I save the scene and hit Play,
We hit Space to start, the opponent is
gonna start moving toward that sphere.
And of course, it's a little difficult
to see which player is which.
I know which it is,
because I'm the one playing.
But, yeah, now we have kind of the
appearance of AI with just a little bit of
vector math, just pretty neat.